 Characterization of Oral Antibiotic Therapy for Acne
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1baPHccNGfQtUNEY-bzIqTGGz7E8zbMBS_62nKDI8kGo/edit#heading=h.24lzjrtcokz0

Authors:
Project leads 
Lisa M. Schilling: lisa.schilling@cuanschutz.edu 
Robert P. Dellavalle: robert.dellavalle@cuanschutz.edu 

Collaborators
Chandler Rundle: chandler.rundle@gmail.com
Chante Karimkhani: ck2525@caa.columbia.edu  
Megan Branda: MEGAN.BRANDA@cuanschutz.edu
John Barbieri: john.barbieri@uphs.upenn.edu
Chris Knoll: cknoll1@its.jnj.com
David Margolis: margo@mail.med.upenn.edu 
Patrick Ryan: ryan@ohdsi.org 
Martijn Schuemie: m.schuemie@erasmusmc.nl 
Jonathan Silverberg: JonathanISilverberg@gmail.com 
Dylan Ray: DYLAN.RAY@cuanschutz.edu
Sara Deakyne: Sara.DeakyneDavies@childrenscolorado.org

Date: Feb 17, 2020

Acknowledgements: The analysis is based on the work from the Observational Health Sciences and Informatics Collaborative. OHDSI (http://ohdsi.org) is a multi-stakeholder, interdisciplinary collaborative that creates open source solutions highlighting the value of observational health data through large-scale analytics.

Renee Domozych: renee.domozych@knights.ucf.edu
Stephanie Chapman: chapm184@msu.edu  
Jessica Farahi: jessica.farahi@cuanschutz.edu

Disclosures: 
Dr. Schuemie is an employee of Janssen Research & Development.
Dr. Rundle's salary funded by Pfizer Independent Grants for Learning and Change (PI: RP Dellavalle): Inflammatory and Immune-mediated Skin Disease Fellowship

Funding: This research is partially funded by a pilot project grant from the American Acne and Rosacea Society to Drs. Karimkhani and Dellavalle.











Table of Contents
Revision history--Amendments and updates……..…………………………………………………2
Objective……………..………………………………………………………………………………….2
Rationale…………….………………………………………………………………………………….2
Research question………….………………………………………………………………………….3
Research methods……………..………………………………………………………………………3
Study design
    Potential data sources
    Data source time period
    Data collection
    Population
    Inclusion criteria
    Exclusion criteria
    Additional factors for analysis
    Outcomes
    Limitations and caveats
Protection of human subjects………………..………………………………………………………..6
Return of data query/results………………….……………………………………………………….6
    Data sources
Plans for disseminating and communicating study results…………..…………………………….7
Example text, figures, and table shells for eventual publication……..……………………………9
References….………………………………………………………………………………………...18
Tables 1-2….…………………………………………………………………………………………..18
    



















Revision History--Amendments and Updates

Version
Date
Author(s)
Comments
3.0
1/2/20
Chandler W. Rundle
Robert Dellavalle
Lisa Schilling
Megan Branda
Significant clarifications to protocol
2.0
3/8/18
Chante Karimkhani
Robert P. Dellavalle
Lisa M. Schilling
John Barbieri
Chris Knoll
David Margolis
Patrick Ryan
Martijn Schuemie
Jonathan Silverberg
Stephanie Chapman
Renee Domozych
Significant clarifications to protocol
1.0
11/1/2016
Lisa M. Schilling
Robert P. Dellavalle
John Barbieri
Chris Knoll
David Margolis
Patrick Ryan
Martijn Schuemie
Jonathan Silverberg
Stephanie Chapman 







1. Objective: 
To characterize the international distribution of oral antibiotic use, specifically antibiotic type and duration, for acne in two age groups: youth (ages 12 to 20) and adults (ages 21 to 40).
2. Rationale: 
Acne is a common and disabling medical condition, particularly amongst adolescents and young adults.1 According to the Global Burden of Disease Study 2016, acne is the most disabling skin condition worldwide.2 In addition to physical disfigurement, the profound psychosocial effects of acne have been recognized for over half a century.3  Guidelines established by the American Academy of Dermatology recommend minimizing the duration of systemic antibiotics for the management of acne to the shortest possible duration, ideally to 3-4 months, in order to decrease the risk of bacterial resistance.1  A recent systematic review demonstrated that over 50% of P. acnes strains are reported as resistant in all major regions of the world.4  In addition to promoting resistance, long-term oral antibiotic use has been associated with a number of adverse events including microbiome disruption and pharyngitis, as well as possible associations with inflammatory bowel disease and obesity.5 Despite these adverse effects, oral antibiotics are often prescribed for acne for longer durations than acne guidelines recommend.5  A large retrospective cohort study of teenagers in the UK revealed that 29% of antibiotic courses prescribed by general practitioners exceeded 6 months in duration.5  A similar retrospective cohort study of teenagers and young adults in the US found that 18% of antibiotic courses exceeded 6 months.6  Our study will investigate oral antibiotic use for acne over the last five years across the globe in both pediatric/young adult and adult populations.  OHDSI network evidence will identify areas of the globe most in need of improving guideline concordance.
3. Research question:
We hypothesize that the type and duration of oral antibiotic therapy will vary regionally (by nation, by site) and course duration will frequently exceed 4 months (a current guideline maximum duration recommendations).
4. Research Methods:
Study Design: 
This study design was determined collectively by consensus among the authors following periodic conferencing between Aug 25, 2016 and Feb 9, 2019.

The study design will be a retrospective, observational, cohort study. 

Outcomes of interest are (1) type of oral antibiotic prescribed and (2) duration of oral antibiotic therapy used among patients with diagnoses of acne. 


Participating Organizations: 
Template for Institutional Details 

University of Colorado Children’s Hospital 

University of Colorado Health Data Compass- University of Colorado/UCHealth

Data Sources of Participating Organizations:
The analysis will be performed across a network of observational healthcare databases volunteered after a call for participants. All databases will have been transformed into the OMOP Common Data Model version 4 or above (http://omop.org/cdm) (https://github.com/OHDSI/CommonDataModel). The OMOP instance can be based on claims or clinical data. The following databases will be included in this analysis:

To be collected from participants:
Name of Database
Owner (university, claims aggregator, etc)
Type of data (claims, clinical data,electronic medical records) 
Medication information (insurance claims, pharmacy fulfillments, prescriptions, clinical narrative documentation)
Geographic representation

Data Sources: TBD--Will be completed based on information completed from the template
Electronic Health Record (EHR):
Participating sites 
EHR
University of Colorado Children’s Hospital
University of Colorado Health Data Compass


Potential participants
Clinical Practice Research Datalink/CPRD (UK) 
Japan Medical Data Center/JMDC (Japan) 
Optum (US)
Truven Commercial Claims and Encounters/CCAE (US) 
Truven Medicaid (US) 
Claims data




Data source time period: 1/1/2015 to 12/31/2019 

Data collection: Data collection will be performed via shared SQL queries that have been tested by the team at the University of Colorado (CU) prior to distribution to participating data partners. Partners will run the SQL queries on their own data against their OMOP CDM, and return the extracted data sets to the CU Team. The CU team will complete the final data analysis using R and SQL.  

Population:

Inclusion Criteria: See Table 1 for all concept sets (inclusion and exclusion criteria)
Age
Persons between 12 and 40 years of age during the study period of treatment that occurs between 1/1/2015 and 12/31/2019. This equates to an earliest birth date of 1/1/79 and a latest birthdate of 12/31/2007.
Minimum observation time period: 
For assessment of antibiotic use and to be comparable to the literature persons with at least 12 months follow-up will be evaluable for inclusion.  Criteria for follow-up is listed below: 
The earliest potential start of inclusion for a person would be defined as the start of the 12 year of life (DOB +12 years) within the data source time period
The latest potential end of a person's inclusion in the analysis would be defined as the start of the 40 year of life (DOB + 40 years) within the data source time period
The periods of evaluation for an individual are defined with the following starting and ending points:
Index date: date of presume first antibiotic prescription for acne
The 18 months prior (to determine that there are no oral antibiotics prescribed in this time period) to the index date will be assessed to ensure we have the correctly identified the first antibiotic prescription for acne.  An encounter with any ambulatory visit (not ED or hospital) during the 18 months prior to the index date will be required for inclusion. 
All patients will be evaluable for inclusion if they have continued care post index visit that occurred within 18 months of the index visit.  A post index visit is any ambulatory visit with a diagnosis in any position. While assessment of inclusion is for 18 months the follow-up period for analysis is 12 months.
Justification: An individual being treated for acne is likely to be followed up within a 12 month period (expert opinion). By having the additional 6 months post time of interest we are avoiding excluding patients that are still being followed but did not have a visit in the 12 months.

Diagnosis:
If claims data, then the person should have at least two claims for any of the Concept IDs representing acne that are a member of the Concept Set shown in Table 2 
	OR
If EHR (clinical data), then the person should have at least two encounter diagnoses for any one of the Concept IDs representing acne that are a member of the Concept Set shown in Table 2 
OHDSI ATLAS search specifications: vocabulary search for “acne,” limit to “clinical finding” class, excluding acne scars and acne syndrome (follicular occlusion tetrad, PAPA syndrome) and including descendents [Karimkhani- acne] or vocabulary search for “acne”, limit to SNOMED vocabulary, select most general search term, include descendents, exclude acne syndrome (PAPA syndrome, SAPHO syndrome).

Included antibiotic types and start dates: Oral antibiotic start date occurring on or after the diagnosis of acne, as specified above
A list of antibiotics that might be prescribed for acne were determined by literature review and content expert (RD, JS, DM, JB) consensus during protocol development will be identified by National Drug Code associated with generic names and Master Form Code5,7,8,9:
Doxycycline (monohydrate, hyclate, LD, ER), minocycline, minocycline ER, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, cephalexin, amoxicillin, amoxicillin/clavulanate, azithromycin, erythromycin, clindamycin, rifampin, Sarecycline
LIMITATION: Antibiotics not commonly recognized for the treatment of acne will not be captured in this query
OHDSI ATLAS search specifications: vocabulary search for each individual generic antibiotic name, limit to “ingredient” class, include standard results, include descendents [Karimkhani- antibiotics]
For a course of oral antibiotics to be included as a treatment  acne, duration of prescribing (as an indication of therapeutic intent or use) must be ≥ 28 days and < 5 years 
Antibiotic duration:
Start date = date of first prescription (EHR)/fulfillment (claims data)
End date = date of last prescription (EHR)/fulfillment (claims data) in series + number of days of medication supplied + refills 
Course duration specification: To capture multiple prescriptions or fulfillments (referred to as distributions) as part of a single course, distributions separated by less than 45 days will be considered to be part of the same course.6 Durations separated by 45 days or more will be considered to be distinct courses, even if they consist of the same medication.

Exclusion Criteria: 
Patients with one or more diagnoses of any of the following diseases during the study period that may require long-term antibiotic use will be excluded to reduce possible misclassifications [OHDSI ATLAS concept set name]:
OHDSI ATLAS search specifications: vocabulary search for each individual condition, limit to SNOMEDvocabulary, select most general search term, include descendents
-folliculitis decalvans [Karimkhani- folliculitis decalvans]
-rosacea [Karimkhani- rosacea] 
-Lyme disease [Karimkhani- lyme disease] 
-RMSF [Karimkhani- RMSF] 
-chlamydia [Karimkhani- chlamydia] 
-syphilis [Karimkhani- syphilis] 
-malaria [Karimkhani- malaria] 
-pneumonia [Karimkhani- pneumonia] 
-lichen planopilaris [Karimkhani- lichen planopilaris]
-hidradenitis suppurativa [Karimkhani- hidradenitis suppurativa] 
-cystic fibrosis [Karimkhani- cystic fibrosis]
-methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus/MRSA [Karimkhani- MRSA]
-HIV/AIDS [Karimkhani- HIV]
-vancomycin resistant enterococcus/VRE [Karimkhani- VRE]
-osteomyelitis [Karimkhani- osteomyelitis]
-acne keloidalis nuchae [Karimkhani- acne keloidalis]

One or more prescriptions of any of the following medications known to exacerbate acne during the observation period:
Hormones:
Corticosteroids
Corticotropin
Androgens
Anabolic Steroids
Hormonal contraceptive medications
		Neuropyschotherapeutic drugs
TCAs
Lithium
Antiepileptic drugs
Aripiprazole
SSRIs
		Vitamins
Vitamin B1
Vitamin B6
Vitamin B12
		Cytostatic drugs
Dactinomycin (actinomycin D)
		Immunomodulating molecules
Cyclosporine
Sirolimus
		Antituberculosis drugs
Isoniazid
Rifampin
Ethionamide
		Halogens
Iodine
Bromine
Chlorine
		Targeted therapies
Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor
Multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors
Vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor
Proteasome inhibitor 
TNF-alfa inhibitors
Histone deacetylase inhibitor

Oral antibiotic courses > 5 years because previous studies have found these cases often attributable to data miscoding.5


Outcomes:
Analysis will be conducted at the patient level, where reporting of results will adhere to the STROBE guidelines for reporting observational studies.10  Patient demographics will be reported using descriptive statistics with count and percentage for categorical characteristics or mean and standard deviation if normally distributed otherwise median and interquartile range for continuous characteristics. Patient age will be reported at two timepoints in their care: at time of first reported acne diagnosis within cohort and at time of first acne antibiotic prescription.

Patients will be assessed within 3 potential groups as there is a potential of differences in populations and prescribing patterns.  The groups are age (youth age 12 to 20 vs adults age 21 to 40), gender (male vs. female) and country.  The last group will only be conducted if multiple countries participate and provide data.  All demographic and descriptive statistics will be reported and assessed for clinical importance which could be used to adjust analysis by.  This is only applicable if modeling is being conducted.

For assessment of medication usage, we will assess for the following outcomes:
Number of unique antibiotic courses per number of acne patients
A unique antibiotic course is defined as a gap of a minimum of 30 days between the completion date of the first course and a start date of the second course.  Change in doses will not be sufficient to be considered a new course.
Unadjusted values will be reported on a patient level of mean # of courses, median, and 95% CI over the 5 years and within a calendar year.
An adjusted analysis will be conducted where the outcome of number of courses will be modeled adjusting for factors of clinical importance as well as year of prescription.
Duration of unique antibiotic courses
A unique course will follow the same definition as above
The duration will be calculated based on days supplied where we will report the mean, median, and 95% CI days for a course of antibiotics over the 5 years and within a calendar year.
For courses that list refills, we will calculate the duration of the prescription based on the number of refills and the days supplied for each fill.  The duration of the prescription will be calculated and reported along with the count of refills for that prescription.  We will report these as mean, median and 95% CI within each year as well within each antibiotic medication.  
Characterize acne antibiotic pathways
We will assess the first choice of acne prescriptions and if there is a second choice prescribed after.  If we find a significant number of persons in the cohort that have more than 2 changes then we will look beyond the first two choices.
We will report the choice of first antibiotic choice providing counts and percentages of antibiotic medication over the 5 years and within a calendar year.  We will report the count and percentage of persons who switch from the initial antibiotic prescription to a new antibiotic and what antibiotic was chosen for that second choice.
Characterize antibiotic courses by antibiotic drug class 
Based on antibiotic drug classes listed in section xx, we will define a course of treatment as above, with a minimum of 30 days difference.
We will calculate the count and percentage of courses within a drug class over the 5 years and within each calendar year. 
Number of oral antibiotic courses occurring concurrently with prescribed concomitant topical retinoid therapy, oral retinoid therapy or topical benzoyl peroxide therapy, (recognizing the limitation that topical retinoid and topical benzoyl peroxide therapies may be obtained without prescriptions).
A limitation of this assessment is that for 3 years in the US, a topical could be purchased without a prescription.  
As this analysis has limitations, it will be done as an exploratory analysis where will report the count and percentage within a calendar year. 
Long-term antibiotic class prescribing patterns:
Count and percentage of patients with a long-term antibiotic class prescribed within 5 years and within a calendar year
Number of long-term antibiotic (LTA)  prescriptions a patient has will be reported as a mean, median and 95% CI as patients may have more than 1 LTA.
LTA class prescribed - number by antibiotic class
LTA prescribed - number by specific antibiotic
LTA # of days prescribed per treatment episode- category 28, 29-60, 61-90, 91-120, 121- 180, 181-360, >360 days less than 5 years
Outcomes will be assessed for differences across groups defined as above for age, gender and country.  We will report all findings of clinical importance.  
Sensitivity studies will be conducted to determine the sensitivity of our outcomes. 

Limitations and Caveats:
Acne may be coded differently in different countries; we will be using ICD codes, established by the Global Burden of Disease Study which were validated by an international panel of skin disease experts (http://ghdx.healthdata.org/record/global-burden-disease-study-2015-gbd-2015-causes-death-and-nonfatal-causes-mapped-icd-codes), to determine the appropriate OHDSI concept_IDs 
Different antibiotics may be used in various countries; we used antibiotics cited in prior acne literature.5,7

5. Protection of human subjects:
This study will use de-identified data. 
IRB approval - Each participating data site confirmed  Institutional Review Board approval for the study or confirmed that their analysis did not require approval because it was exempt or was deemed non-human subjects research (e.g., because the database had previously been de-identified). 
6. Return of data query/results:
We seek de-identified patient level data per patient and per course of antibiotic therapy results: 

For every patient meeting inclusion criteria we would seek return of the following information:
Patient demographic table: 
Age at Index visit (first prescription for acne)
Sex/gender-biologic or other
Race
Ethnicity
Country of residence
Type of insurance coverage for each patient at the time of first acne diagnosis (private, governmental, none, other) 
Age at first acne diagnosis
Acne type at first diagnosis (see Table 2 below for acne type by ICD code), 
Encounter type for all encounters during study time frame, days from the Index visit till the date of encounter and length of stay in days if applicable, primary diagnosis for encounter, clinician id (random id generate to represent clinician)
Antibiotic prescription medication name, NDC code, days from the index visit till date of prescription, Days supplied for prescription, Unit of dose or source value, quantity of dose, # of refills for prescription and route of prescription (for each prescription of approved medications listed in xx during study timeframe).
Presence of antibiotic resistant conditions including MRSA and VRE noted during study time frame, including 6 months prior to index date.  Need days from the index visit till date of encounter where condition is noted.

7. Plans for disseminating and communicating study results:
The study results will be posted on the OHDSI website after completion of the study and published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. 

Initial proposal date: 25 August, 2016

Launch date: TBD

Study closure date: TBD

Results submission: Email


Example Text, Figures, and Table shells for eventual publication:

This section illustrates example results text, tables and figures that will be generated:

Example results text:

“There were X antibiotic prescriptions among X patients. Median age was X and X% were male (Table 2). Fig 1 summarizes the most commonly prescribed oral antibiotics, which were x (%), followed by x (%), x (%). The mean duration of therapy was x days. The mean number of prescription as part of course of therapy was x prescriptions. In all, X%, X%, and X% of courses of antibiotics exceeded 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year respectively.”

“With respect to geographic variation, the mean duration of therapy was X days in the region with the shortest and X days in the region with the longest mean duration of therapy. If all regions were to achieve an average duration of therapy equal to that of the region using the shortest mean duration of therapy, X antibiotic days per year could be avoided in the study population.”


Example figure 1: Courses of antibiotic use for acne

*Figure is from Lee et al. JAAD Vol 71 Number 1 page 73.  Our figure might include more types of oral antibiotics. Might present one histogram of totals per antibiotic classes and one histogram of all individual antibiotics used in significant numbers.
Example figure 2: Antibiotic use for acne by year


*Our table would include many more types of oral antibiotics from other classes and would include years 2003-2019

Example figure 3: Antibiotic course duration category totals for acne 

*These pictograms bars can be color-coded by database.


Example figure 4: Antibiotic for acne course duration per year

*From Barbierie et al JAAD 2016. 
Our table would include years 2003-2019
Example figure 5: Antibiotic for acne course duration per year

*Our heat map would include more countries and category ranges.


Example Table 1: Databases included and their characteristics
Database
Location
Years of data
Owner



























Example Table 2: Study population demographics


No of patients (%)
No of person years 
No of prescriptions (%)
Mean age
12-18 yrs
>18 yrs






Gender 
Male
Female






Location
US
UK
Japan
etc.






Acne diagnosis
Acne Vulgaris
Acne, unspecified
Acne conglobata
etc.






Insurance type 
Governmental
Private
None
Other







Example Table 2a: User prevalence and prescription prevalence of qualifying oral antibiotic prescriptions by database (prevalence per 1000 persons), ranked by the average user prevalence


User prevalence
Prescription prevalence
Antibiotics
CPRD
JMDC
Optum
CCAE
Truven
CPRD
JMDC
Optum
CCAE
Truven

























Example Table 3: Number of qualifying oral antibiotic prescriptions by database.


Number of prescriptions
Type of antibiotic
CPRD
JMDC
Optum
CCAE
Truven
Minocycline










Doxycycline hyclate










Trimethoprim/
sulfamethoxazole










Tetracycline










Amoxicillin










Cephalexin










Azithromycin










Clindamycin










Ciprofloxacin










Amoxicillin/
Clavulanate










Erythromycin Ethylsuccinate










Erythromycin Stearate










Lymecycline










Oxytetracycline















Example Table 4. Duration of antibiotic course.
Duration of antibiotic course 
(month range)
**suggested breakdown of data
Number of antibiotic courses
< 3 months


3-6 months


6-12 months


1-2 years


>2 years




Example Table 5. Mean and SD of antibiotic course duration for males and females.
Sex
Mean course duration (days)
Male


Female


 
 
Example Table 6: Regional variation in mean duration of antibiotic therapy
Country
Duration of therapy (days/months)
United States


United Kingdom


Japan


France


Germany


Other 


Other


Other


 


References:
1. 	Zaenglein AL, Pathy AL, Schlosser BJ, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of acne vulgaris. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2016;74(5):945-973.e33. doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2015.12.037
2. 	Hay SI, Abajobir AA, Abate KH, et al. Global, regional, and national disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) for 333 diseases and injuries and healthy life expectancy (HALE) for 195 countries and territories, 1990–2016: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2016. The Lancet. 390(10100):1260-1344. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(17)32130-X
3. 	Sulzberger MB, Zaidens SH. Psychogenic factors in dermatologic disorders. Med Clin North Am. 1948;32:669-685. doi:10.1016/s0025-7125(16)35686-3
4. 	Walsh TR, Efthimiou J, Dréno B. Systematic review of antibiotic resistance in acne: an increasing topical and oral threat. Lancet Infect Dis. 2016;16(3):e23-33. doi:10.1016/S1473-3099(15)00527-7
5. 	Barbieri JS, Hoffstad O, Margolis DJ. Duration of oral tetracycline-class antibiotic therapy and use of topical retinoids for the treatment of acne among general practitioners (GP): A retrospective cohort study. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2016;75(6):1142-1150.e1. doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2016.06.057
6. 	Lee YH, Liu G, Thiboutot DM, Leslie DL, Kirby JS. A retrospective analysis of the duration of oral antibiotic therapy for the treatment of acne among adolescents: investigating practice gaps and potential cost-savings. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2014;71(1):70-76. doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2014.02.031
7. 	Straight CE, Lee YH, Liu G, Kirby JS. Duration of oral antibiotic therapy for the treatment of adult acne: a retrospective analysis investigating adherence to guideline recommendations and opportunities for cost-savings. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2015;72(5):822-827. doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2015.01.048
8. 	Barbieri JS, Bhate K, Hartnett KP, Fleming-Dutra KE, Margolis DJ. Trends in Oral Antibiotic Prescription in Dermatology, 2008 to 2016. JAMA Dermatol. 2019;155(3):290. doi:10.1001/jamadermatol.2018.4944
9. 	FDA Approves Sarecycline for Moderate to Severe Acne. https://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/902826. Accessed February 4, 2020.
10. 	von Elm E, Altman DG, Egger M, et al. The Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement: guidelines for reporting observational studies. Ann Intern Med. 2007;147(8):573-577. doi:10.7326/0003-4819-147-8-200710160-00010

Table 1: Concept sets
Concept set
Karimkhani- acne
Karimkhani- antibiotics
Karimkhani- folliculitis decalvans
Karimkhani- rosacea
Karimkhani- lyme disease
Karimkhani- RMSF
Karimkhani- chlamydia
Karimkhani- syphilis
Karimkhani- malaria
Karimkhani- pneumonia
Karimkhani- lichen planopilaris
Karimkhani- hidradenitis suppurativa
Karimkhani- cystic fibrosis
Karimkhani- MRSA
Karimkhani- HIV
Karimkhani- VRE
Karimkhani- osteomyelitis
Karimkhani- acne keloidalis
Karimkhani- steroid
Karimkhani- lithium
Karimkhani- phenobarbital
Karimkhani- phenytoin
Karimkhani- isoniazid
Karimkhani- EGFR inh

Table 2: Acne diagnosis concept set = Karimkhani- acne; Table 2 lists the ICD-9 and -10 Included Source Codes that map to the included concept_IDs for the purposes of face validity

Concept ID
Concept Code
Concept Name
Class
Domain
Vocabulary
44836157
706.1
Other acne
4-dig billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
44824484
706
Acne varioliformis
4-dig billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
35208638
L73.0
Acne keloid
4-char billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
35208628
L70.9
Acne, unspecified
4-char billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
35208627
L70.8
Other acne
4-char billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
35208626
L70.5
Acne excoriee
4-char billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
35208625
L70.4
Infantile acne
4-char billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
35208624
L70.3
Acne tropica
4-char billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
35208623
L70.2
Acne varioliformis
4-char billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
35208622
L70.1
Acne conglobata
4-char billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
35208621
L70.0
Acne vulgaris
4-char billing code
Non-Standard
Condition
1569798
L70
Acne
3-char nonbill code
Non-Standard
Condition





Appendix 1

Please use the below format for adding your institution for this protocol
Name of Database
Owner (university, claims aggregator, etc)
Type of data (claims, clinical data,electronic medical records) 
Medication information (insurance claims, pharmacy fulfillments, prescriptions, clinical narrative documentation)
Geographic representation
